# DODAS: How it is made

DODAS has been implemented in the context of INDIGO-DataCloud project and thus it is built on several software components developed by that project. Also, most of the technical solutions adopted by DODAS follow the guidelines provided by INDIGO-DataCloud.   
DODAS has a highly modular architecture and, from the perspectives of the workflows, is **highly customisable** because of extremely flexible approach used to deal with software dependencies, external services and of course the user tailored software. The high level of modularity guarantee a real abstraction of the underlying cloud infrastructure \(the IaaS\).  
The major sub-services composing DODAS are:  the INDGO [Identity and Access Management](https://indigo-iam.github.io/docs/v/current/) \(IAM\) and [Token Translation Service](https://legacy.gitbook.com/book/indigo-dc/wattson/details) \(TTS\), [PaaS Orchestrator](https://legacy.gitbook.com/book/indigo-dc/indigo-paas-orchestrator/details) and [Infrastructure Manager](http://imdocs.readthedocs.io/) \(IM\). Those composition of services represents the so called **PaaS Core Services** of DODAS.  
IAM is the OpenidConnect Authorization Server which has the crucial role to **authenticate the user** and to provide her/him with a OIDC token which in turn is used to delegate service to act on behalf of the user itself. While the user must register to the IAM-DODAS instance, a federated system supporting eduGAIN, the PaaS Orchestrator and/or IM are responsible to take care of the user request \(in form of a TOSCA template\) and prepare **a cluster for containers orchestration over the IaaS**. DODAS relies on Mesos for the container orchestration. The container orchestrator is meant as a layer where the end-users service can be executed as described more in detail [here](https://dodas.gitbook.io/dynamic-on-demand-analysis-service/~/edit/primary/dodas-how-it-is-made) and here.    
Regarding the PaaS Orchestrator and IM, both have the role of abstracting the underlying IaaSes and both of them support the same TOSCA language for input data description. There are differences among the two, and there are additional features \(with respect to the abstraction\) which are only supported by the PaaS Orchestrator. Concrete examples:

* if you need to hide a multi cloud environment, which in principle could be a combination of both public and private provider \(hybrid model\) most probably you are looking for the orchestrator
*  if your goal is a transparent support to the elasticity, you need the PaaS Orchestrator which integrated [Clues](https://legacy.gitbook.com/book/indigo-dc/clues-indigo/details). 

On the other side is worth to mention that using your own public or private cloud through the orchestrator requires some IaaS [registration steps](https://dodas.gitbook.io/dynamic-on-demand-analysis-service/~/edit/drafts/-LEDKwAyU8rRIV1lDMsb/using-dodas-with-external-providers), while IM is not requiring any resource registration. 

